and now for an opposing
view we turn to
Senator Mike Lee of
Utah he was one of
22 Republican
senators who signed a
letter to President
Trump last week
urging him to withdraw
from the Paris
agreement senator
Lee welcome to the
program I believe you
just heard the the
response of California
Governor Jerry
Brown who argues this
is a fundamentally
wrong decision he
said it's going to set
back the cause of
fighting climate
change yeah I think
he's wrong I think I
disagree with every
word every syllable
he uttered including
the words but and
and look this was a
right decision this
was the right thing
to do when President
Obama entered into
this agreement a
couple of years ago
he didn't submit it
to the United States Senate for
ratification as a
treaty he didn't do
that because he knew there was
absolutely no way
he could get the
two-thirds supermajority
vote necessary
in order to get this
ratified in order
to make it law of the land as a
governing treaty he
didn't do that and
consequently was
entirely foreseeable
that when a different
president from a
different party with
a different point
of view came along
he would not move
forward with it
president Trump did
that today because
he decided this was
not in the interests
of the United States
of America he did
the right thing
senator one of the
arguments that we
heard Governor Brown
and others making today is that
President Trump
and those who are
pushing this decision today
don't understand the
way the climate and
jobs the economy
interact that in fact
when you do less to
fight climate change
as this as what the
president in effect
is doing he's missing
a chance for the
United States to
move ahead with clean
energy technology so
in other words that
that what he's done
is going to cost
jobs rather than
increase them you know
I would flip it on
him I would point out
quite to the contrary
what has brought
down emissions book
from stationary
sources like power
plants and from
mobile sources
like automobiles is
innovation improvements
in technology
that have occurred
as a result of free
market forces and in
the absence I would
add of anything like
a treaty comparing
to the Paris agreement so this
has happened through
innovation through
free market forces
I think quite the
opposite of what
Governor Brown was
saying that when
the government gets
involved it tends to
squelch innovation
and in that innovation
is needed for us
to control emissions
let me quote something that your
predecessor the former
EPA Administrator
Gina not your
predecessor I'm sorry the
former EPA Administrator
Gina McCarthy
has said today she
said this is an
embarrassing day for
the United States
she went on to say
make no mistake
because of this
reckless decision our
businesses will lose investment
opportunities we
will seed technology
breakthroughs to
countries that will
take over our
leadership role and the
rest of the world
will question whether
the u.s. can be
trusted yeah that's
pretty apocalyptic
I think that's
apocalyptic to the
point of straining
credulity look these
are smart people
but they are not
omniscient and I think
their prophecies of
doom and gloom are
entirely unwarranted
and in fact I think
they're inappropriate
again we have to
get back to the fact
that this power the
power to enter into binding
international
agreements this is a
shared power this is
something that was
decided should be a
shared power at the
Constitutional
Convention some 230 years
ago as I explained
in my new book that
came out this week
we called written out
of history the these
powers that are
vested in the federal
government have to
be clearly enumerated
they have to be
limited and we
can't give excessive
unfettered power to
a president to act
alone to bind an
entire country to a set
of principles a set
of rules that the
president him or
herself makes that's
what we would be
allowing presidents to
do if we said any
time a president like
President Obama
wants to subject an
entire country to
a new set of rules
that president can do so without
submitting that
international agreement
to the Senate for
treaty ratification
well senator maybe
this is along those
lines but I'm now
reading comments even
from some Republicans
who have a problem
with this decision a Republican
congressman from
Florida Carlos Cabello
was interviewed I
heard just within the
hour
he's saying this is
a mistake he said
I'm already seeing
the impact of climate
change on my part
of the state and we
need to move forward
with technology to
address it I'm going
to quickly quote
the four
Republican Treasury
Secretary Henry
Paulson who said
he's dismayed and
disappointed he said
by moving ourselves
to the sidelines of
an evolving global
conversation he said
we've left a void
for others to fill
regrettably this
undermines us
credibility weakens our
ability to lead in
other areas yeah I
look I completely
disagree the fact that
you can point to
some people who call
themselves Republicans
who disagree with
this decision
doesn't change this
analysis and I
notice there wasn't a
corresponding push
back to the person
who preceded me you
didn't push back
like this to Governor
Brown I understand
that you might disagree
personally with
what senator did
today senator but that
doesn't make it I'm
sorry I'd like to
answer your question
and that doesn't
mean that this was
wrong this was the
right thing to do
the president put
people before this
Paris agreement he
put Pittsburgh before
Paris he did the
right thing senator
just to set the
record straight I
quoted president
Trump's several times
back to Governor
Brown in my interview
with him just as
I've quoted some who
critic criticized
the president's
decision in my interview
with you finally
senator Lee but I want
to be clear the reason
I made that point
is you didn't try
to identify some
Democrats who might
have supported this
you quoted the
President himself and
what I'm saying is
you're pushing back
on me in a way you
didn't put push back
on him that's fine
that's your right to
do that as a
reporter well let me
finally ask you senator the the
president said he's open to
renegotiation we're
already hearing from
European officials
that it's the this is
an accord not open
for renegotiation so
how do you how do
you foresee moving
ahead in that direction
well if they're
saying that this is not open for
renegotiation and
this negotiation was
itself something
that couldn't get
through the United
States Senate and
that's why President Obama never
submitted it to the
Senate for treaty
ratification then
we are at an impasse
and we will proceed
we will proceed by
the way I should add
as a global leader
in environmental
regulation we are a
global leader in the
rule of law we have
brought down emissions
in this country
through our legal
system and through
technological innovation
we can do this
on our own we don't have to have
the permission of
countries all over the
world to do that
we've done it pretty
well we've done it
much better than a
lot of our would-be
partners in this
agreement Senator
Mike Lee of Utah thank
you very much for
talking with us thank
you
[Music]